1 Nephi 3:7

7 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go and do the 

things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no 

commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that 

they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.

1 Nephi 19:23

23 And I did read many things unto them which were written in the books of 

Moses; but that I might more fully persuade them to believe in the Lord their 

Redeemer I did read unto them that which was written by the prophet Isaiah; for 

I did liken all scriptures unto us, that it might be for our profit and 

learning.

2 Nephi 2:25

25 Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy.

2 Nephi 2:27

27 Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them 

which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal 

life, through the great Mediator of all men, or to choose captivity and death, 

according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men 

might be miserable like unto himself.

2 Nephi 9:28-29

28 O that cunning plan of the evil one! O the vainness, and the frailties, and 

the foolishness of men! When they are learned they think they are wise, and they 

hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know 

of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. 

And they shall perish.
29 But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of God.

2 Nephi 28:7-9

7 Yea, and there shall be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry, for 

tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us.
8 And there shall also be many which shall say: Eat, drink, and be merry; 

nevertheless, fear God--he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a 

little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy 

neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we 

die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, 

and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God.
9 Yea, and there shall be many which shall teach after this manner, false and 

vain and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts, and shall 

seek deep to hide their counsels from the Lord; and their works shall be in the 

dark.

2 Nephi 32:3

3 Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost; wherefore, they speak the words 

of Christ. Wherefore, I said unto you, feast upon the words of Christ; for 

behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.

2 Nephi 32:8-9

8 And now, my beloved brethren, I perceive that ye ponder still in your hearts; 

and it grieveth me that I must speak concerning this thing. For if ye would 

hearken unto the Spirit which teacheth a man to pray ye would know that ye must 

pray; for the evil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teacheth him that he 

must not pray.
9 But behold, I say unto you that ye must pray always, and not faint; that ye 

must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in the first place ye shall pray 

unto the Father in the name of Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance 

unto thee, that thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul.

Jacob 2:18-19

18 But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God.
19 And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye 

seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good--to clothe the naked, 

and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to 

the sick and the afflicted.

Mosiah 2:17

17 And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may 

learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the 

service of your God.

Mosiah 3:19

19 For the natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the fall of Adam, 

and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy 

Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the 

atonement of Christ the Lord, and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, 

patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit 

to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father.

Mosiah 4:30

30 But this much I can tell you, that if ye do not watch yourselves, and your 

thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, and observe the commandments of God, 

and continue in the faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our 

Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish. And now, O man, remember, 

and perish not.

Alma 32:21

21 And now as I said concerning faith--faith is not to have a perfect knowledge 

of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope for things which are not seen, 

which are true.

Alma 34:32-34

32 For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold 

the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.
33 And now, as I said unto you before, as ye have had so many witnesses, 

therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your 

repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to 

prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, 

then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed.
34 Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, 

that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit 

which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that 

same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world.

Alma 37:6-7

6 Now ye may suppose that this is foolishness in me; but behold I say unto you, 

that by small and simple things are great things brought to pass; and small 

means in many instances doth confound the wise.
7 And the Lord God doth work by means to bring about his great and eternal 

purposes; and by very small means the Lord doth confound the wise and bringeth 

about the salvation of many souls.

Alma 37:35

35 O, remember, my son, and learn wisdom in thy youth; yea, learn in thy youth 

to keep the commandments of God.

Alma 41:10

10 Do not suppose, because it has been spoken concerning restoration, that ye 

shall be restored from sin to happiness. Behold, I say unto you, wickedness 

never was happiness.

Helaman 5:12

12 And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our 

Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation; 

that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the 

whirlwind, yea, when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it 

shall have no power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless 

wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation, a 

foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.

3 Nephi 11:29

29 For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is 

not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth 

up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.

3 Nephi 27:27

27 And know ye that ye shall be judges of this people, according to the judgment 

which I shall give unto you, which shall be just. Therefore, what manner of men 

ought ye to be? Verily I say unto you, even as I am.

Ether 12:6

6 And now, I, Moroni, would speak somewhat concerning these things; I would show 

unto the world that faith is things which are hoped for and not seen; wherefore, 

dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no witness until after the trial 

of your faith.

Ether 12:27

27 And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness. I give unto men 

weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all men that 

humble themselves before me; for if they humble themselves before me, and have 

faith in me, then will I make weak things become strong unto them.

Moroni 7:16-17

16 For behold, the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good 

from evil; wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which 

inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the 

power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is 

of God.
17 But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, 

and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is 

of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no 

man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject 

themselves unto him.

Moroni 7:45

45 And charity suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed 

up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, and rejoiceth 

not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all 

things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.

Moroni 10:4-5

4 And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask 

God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; 

and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in 

Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy 

Ghost.
5 And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.


Old Testament

Moses 1:39

39 For behold, this is my work and my glory--to bring to pass the immortality 

and eternal life of man.

Moses 7:18

18 And the Lord called his people ZION, because they were of one heart and one 

mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them.

Abraham 3:22-23

22 Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were 

organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble 

and great ones;
23 And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of 

them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that 

were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou 

art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born.

Genesis 1:26-27

26 ¶ And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let 

them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and 

over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that 

creepeth upon the earth.
27 So God created man in his [own] image, in the image of God created he him; 

male and female created he them.

Genesis 39:9

9 [There is] none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any 

thing from me but thee, because thou [art] his wife: how then can I do this 

great wickedness, and sin against God?

Exodus 20:3-17

3 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
4 Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness [of any thing] 

that [is] in heaven above, or that [is] in the earth beneath, or that [is] in 

the water under the earth:
5 Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy 

God [am] a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children 

unto the third and fourth [generation] of them that hate me;
6 And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my 

commandments.
7 Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will 

not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.
8 Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
9 Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work:
10 But the seventh day [is] the sabbath of the LORD thy God: [in it] thou shalt 

not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy 

maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that [is] within thy gates:
11 For [in] six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in 

them [is], and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath 

day, and hallowed it.
12 ¶ Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land 

which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
13 Thou shalt not kill.
14 Thou shalt not commit adultery.
15 Thou shalt not steal.
16 Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.
17 Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy 

neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his 

ass, nor any thing that [is] thy neighbour's.

Exodus 33:11

11 And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his 

friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant Joshua, the son of 

Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle.

Leviticus 19:18

18 Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy 

people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I [am] the LORD.

Deuteronomy 7:3-4

3 Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy daughter thou shalt not give 

unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son.
4 For they will turn away thy son from following me, that they may serve other 

gods: so will the anger of the LORD be kindled against you, and destroy thee 

suddenly.

Joshua 1:8

8 This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt 

meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all 

that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then 

thou shalt have good success.

Joshua 24:15

15 ¶ And if it seem evil unto you to serve the LORD, choose you this day whom ye 

will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that [were] on the other 

side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but as 

for me and my house, we will serve the LORD.

1 Samuel 16:7

7 But the LORD said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height 

of his stature; because I have refused him: for [the LORD seeth] not as man 

seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the LORD looketh on the 

heart.

Job 19:25-26

25 For I know [that] my redeemer liveth, and [that] he shall stand at the latter 

[day] upon the earth:
26 And [though] after my skin [worms] destroy this [body], yet in my flesh shall 

I see God:

Psalms 24:3-4

3 ¶ Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy 

place?
4 He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul 

unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.

Proverbs 3:5-6

5 Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own 

understanding.
6 In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.

Isaiah 1:18

18 Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as 

scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they 

shall be as wool.

Isaiah 29:13-14

13 Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near [me] with their 

mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from 

me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:
14 Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, 

[even] a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise [men] shall 

perish, and the understanding of their prudent [men] shall be hid.

Isaiah 53:3-5

3 He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with 

grief: and we hid as it were [our] faces from him; he was despised, and we 

esteemed him not.
4 ¶ Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem 

him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.
5 But he [was] wounded for our transgressions, [he was] bruised for our 

iniquities: the chastisement of our peace [was] upon him; and with his stripes 

we are healed.
Isaiah 55:8-9

8 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith 

the LORD.
9 For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your 

ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.

Jeremiah 16:16

16 Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the LORD, and they shall fish 

them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from 

every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks.

Ezekiel 37:15-17

15 ¶ The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,
16 Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, 

and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and 

write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel 

his companions:
17 And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in 

thine hand.

Daniel 2:44-45

44 And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, 

which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other 

people, [but] it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it 

shall stand for ever.
45 Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without 

hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, 

and the gold; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass 

hereafter: and the dream [is] certain, and the interpretation thereof sure.

Amos 3:7

7 Surely the Lord GOD will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his 

servants the prophets.

Malachi 3:8-10

8 Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed 

thee? In tithes and offerings.
9 Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation.
10 Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine 

house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open 

you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be 

room enough to receive it.

Malachi 4:5-6

5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and 

dreadful day of the LORD:
6 And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of 

the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.


New Testament

Matthew 5:14-16

14 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.
15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a 

candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.
16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and 

glorify your Father which is in heaven.

Matthew 6:24

24 No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the 

other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve 

God and mammon.

Matthew 16:15-19

15 He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?
16 And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living 

God.
17 And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for 

flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in 

heaven.
18 And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will 

build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
19 And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever 

thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt 

loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

Matthew 25:40

40 And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch 

as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it 

unto me.

Luke 24:36-39

36 ¶ And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith 

unto them, Peace be unto you.
37 But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a 

spirit.
38 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your 

hearts?
39 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a 

spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.

John 3:5

5 Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water 

and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.

John 7:17

17 If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of 

God, or whether I speak of myself.

John 10:16

16 And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, 

and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.

John 14:15

15 ¶ If ye love me, keep my commandments.

John 17:3

3 And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and 

Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.

Acts 7:55-56

55 But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into heaven, and 

saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God,
56 And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on 

the right hand of God.

Romans 1:16

16 ¶ For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God 

unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the 

Greek.

1 Corinthians 10:13

13 There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is 

faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will 

with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it.

1 Corinthians 15:20-22

20 ¶ But now is Christ risen from the dead, [and] become the firstfruits of them 

that slept.
21 For since by man [came] death, by man [came] also the resurrection of the 

dead.
22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.

1 Corinthians 15:29

29 Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not 

at all? why are they then baptized for the dead?

1 Corinthians 15:40-42

40 There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the 

celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.
41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another 

glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in glory.

Ephesians 4:11-14

11 And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and 

some, pastors and teachers;
12 For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the 

edifying of the body of Christ:
13 Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son 

of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of 

Christ:
14 That we [henceforth] be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried 

about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, [and] cunning 

craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive;

2 Thessalonians 2:1-3

1 ¶ NOW we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by 

our gathering together unto him,
2 That ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by 

word, nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand.
3 ¶ Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except 

there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of 

perdition;

2 Timothy 3:1-5

1 ¶ THIS know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.
2 For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, 

blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
3 Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, 

despisers of those that are good,
4 Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;
5 Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn 

away.

2 Timothy 3:16-17

16 All scripture [is] given by inspiration of God, and [is] profitable for 

doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:
17 That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works.

Hebrews 5:4

4 And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as 

was Aaron.

James 1:5-6

5 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men 

liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.
6 But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a 

wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.

James 2:17-18

17 Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone.
18 Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith 

without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works.

Revelation 14:6-7

6 ¶ And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting 

gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and 

kindred, and tongue, and people,
7 Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his 

judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and 

the fountains of waters.

Revelation 20:12-13

12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were 

opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead 

were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to 

their works.
13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered 

up the dead which were in them: and they were judged every man according to 

their works.

D&C 1:37-38

37 Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies 

and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.
38 What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and 

though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but 

shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my 

servants, it is the same.

D&C 8:2-3

2 Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy 

Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart.
3 Now, behold, this is the spirit of revelation; behold, this is the spirit by 

which Moses brought the children of Israel through the Red Sea on dry ground.

D&C 10:5

5 Pray always, that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you may conquer Satan, 

and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his 

work.

D&C 14:7

7 And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal 

life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God.

D&C 18:10, 15-16

10 Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God;
15 And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto 

this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy 

with him in the kingdom of my Father!
16 And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto 

me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring 

many souls unto me!

D&C 19:16-19

16 For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not 

suffer if they would repent;
17 But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I;
18 Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble 

because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and 

spirit--and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink--
19 Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my 

preparations unto the children of men.

D&C 25:12

12 For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the 

righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon 

their heads.

D&C 58:26-27

26 For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that 

is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; 

wherefore he receiveth no reward.
27 Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many 

things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness;

D&C 58:42-43

42 Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the 

Lord, remember them no more.
43 By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins--behold, he will confess 

them and forsake them.

D&C 59:9-10

9 And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou 

shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day;
10 For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to 

pay thy devotions unto the Most High;

D&C 64:9-11

9 Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that 

forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for 

there remaineth in him the greater sin.
10 I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to 

forgive all men.
11 And ye ought to say in your hearts--let God judge between me and thee, and 

reward thee according to thy deeds.

D&C 64:23

23 Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily 

it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is 

tithed shall not be burned at his coming.

D&C 76:22-24

22 And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the 

testimony, last of all which we give of him: That he lives!
23 For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing 

record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father--
24 That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, 

and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God.

D&C 82:3

3 For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against 

the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation.

D&C 82:10

10 I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, 

ye have no promise.

D&C 84:33-39

33 For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I 

have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto 

the renewing of their bodies.
34 They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the 

church and kingdom, and the elect of God.
35 And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord;
36 For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me;
37 And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father;
38 And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all 

that my Father hath shall be given unto him.
39 And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the 

priesthood.

D&C 88:123-24

123 See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to 

another as the gospel requires.
124 Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; 

cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not 

be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated.

D&C 89:18-21

18 And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in 

obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to 

their bones;
19 And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden 

treasures;
20 And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint.
21 And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall 

pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen.

D&C 121:34-36

34 Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not 

chosen?
35 Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and 

aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson--
36 That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers 

of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only 

upon the principles of righteousness.

D&C 130:18-19

18 Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise 

with us in the resurrection.
19 And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through 

his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in 

the world to come.

D&C 130:20-21

20 There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this 

world, upon which all blessings are predicated--
21 And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon 

which it is predicated.

D&C 130:22-23

22 The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; 

but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of 

Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us.
23 A man may receive the Holy Ghost, and it may descend upon him and not tarry 

with him.

D&C 131:1-4

1 IN the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees;
2 And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the 

priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage];
3 And if he does not, he cannot obtain it.
4 He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot 

have an increase.

D&C 137:7-10


7 Thus came the voice of the Lord unto me, saying: All who have died without a 

knowledge of this gospel, who would have received it if they had been permitted 

to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God;
8 Also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have 

received it with all their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom;
9 For I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the 

desire of their hearts.
10 And I also beheld that all children who die before they arrive at the years 

of accountability are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven.
